docs: add AI guidelines page (#1230)
azerothcore/wiki: docs/agentic-engineering.md

# Agentic Engineering at AzerothCore

> > **TL;DR:** use AI as much as you like. Stay in control: review, understand, test and take responsibility for every line you submit. PRs that are clearly unreviewed AI output may be closed without a detailed review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include important.html content="Use AI as much as you like. Stay in control: review, understand, test and take responsibility for every line you submit. PRs that are clearly unreviewed AI output may be closed without a detailed review." %}
```

## AI at AzerothCore

We're living through one of the biggest shifts in how software gets built since the internet went mainstream.
AI is rapidly changing the way developers work, and it's here to stay.

At AzerothCore we'd rather steer this shift than pretend it isn't happening. We see AI as a tool that helps us move faster *and* build better software.
The moment speed starts costing quality, we're doing it wrong.

You don't need to trust AI. You need to stay in control of it. This page shows how we do that here.

## The ground rules

AI-assisted contributions are welcome, and they are held to the same bar as any other contribution. Before you open a PR:

1. **Own your code.** Review and understand every line before submitting it. During review, you are the one answering questions, not your agent. If you can't explain a change, it's not ready.

> 2. **Test for real.** Build it, run it, verify it in game. "It compiles" is not testing.

Author: not relevant

Each phase runs in a fresh, focused session, which gives you better output and costs fewer tokens (more on that below).

## Pick your agent

Everything on this page is agent-agnostic. Most of our devs use CLI tools such as **Claude Code**; alternatives include [**OpenCode**](https://opencode.ai/) and similar tools that include free models, if a paid subscription isn't an option. If you prefer working inside your editor, VS Code or other IDE extensions work as well.

## The agent-toolkit

The [agent-toolkit](https://github.com/eai-org/agent-toolkit/) is a small open-source collection of skills and rules that implement this workflow.
It's maintained by AC founders together with external maintainers, and it lives outside the AC GitHub org because other projects use it too.
It has been battle-tested with Claude Code and is designed to work with any agent; if something doesn't work with yours, please [file a bug report](https://github.com/eai-org/agent-toolkit/issues).

Install it with one command:

> 

Author: we control it

```
git clone https://github.com/eai-org/agent-toolkit.git && cd agent-toolkit && ./install.sh

> ```

Author: fixed

Keep it up to date with:

```
cd agent-toolkit && git pull && ./install.sh
```

Other install methods (Claude Code plugin marketplace, [skills.sh](https://www.skills.sh/), [agentwheel](https://www.nestdev.it/agentwheel/)) are listed in the [README](https://github.com/eai-org/agent-toolkit/#how-to-install).

## Walkthrough: from ticket to PR

Say you want to work on a bug or feature tracked at `https://github.com/azerothcore/azerothcore-wotlk/issues/XXXXX` (replace `XXXXX` with the actual ticket number).

**1. Fetch the ticket.** Open a new session and type:

> 

Reviewer 2: not relevant

```
/fetch-ticket https://github.com/azerothcore/azerothcore-wotlk/issues/XXXXX
```

This downloads the ticket and any useful information attached to it (comments, related tickets) into a planning directory:

```
.claude/plans/XXXXX-some-issue-title/XXXXX-some-issue-title.TICKET.md
```

Don't worry about the directory name if you use a different agent: it's just a folder.

> If your task has no GitHub ticket, create a similar `md` file by hand in the same place.

Author: not relevant

```

If you want an extra review pass, chain it:

```
Execute the plan `.claude/plans/XXXXX-some-issue-title/XXXXX-some-issue-title.PLAN.md` then run /fresh-eyes-review and address the feedback where it makes sense
```

(or run the review in a later prompt).

**5. Open the PR.** When you're ready, the agent can fill in the AC PR template for you:

```
/generate-pr-description
```

Then do the part the agent can't: test your change in game, read the final diff top to bottom, and open the PR.

**6. Handle the review.** When comments come in, `/fetch-pr-review` collects them into a document and `/refine-pr-review` walks you through them one by one (address, partially address, or push back) with drafted replies.

## Habits that pay off

### Keep your context sharp

You noticed we keep running `/clear`. A fresh, focused context makes agents noticeably better *and* cheaper: less clutter means higher quality output and fewer wasted tokens.

If you use Claude Code, we recommend enabling the context usage indicator so you always know how full your window is:

![Claude Code context usage indicator](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:640/format:webp/1*NlQRpqFBz7FTlY01QG-B8Q.png)

> The configuration for it is available [here](https://gist.github.com/FrancescoBorzi/ac9d6afd5dbb2ef3dd0499cd7caba5dc).

Author: not relevant

> The configuration for it is available [here](https://gist.github.com/FrancescoBorzi/ac9d6afd5dbb2ef3dd0499cd7caba5dc).

Author: we control it
